[{”question”: ”Do you have any initiatives or educational programs for equality?”, ”description”: ”This question is relevant as it gives you an idea of the company’s view on gender equality. If a company has implemented initiatives and programs that highlight equality, it implies that the company cares about the topic, as well as is willing to invest time and resources in striving towards a more gender equal environment. Follow-up questions can include what types of initiatives they have implemented, if these programs include both men, women and non-binary and how often these initiatives take place.”}, {”question”: ”What’s the gender distribution in senior executive positions in your organization?”, ”description”:”A report by McKinsey found that women often are less likely than men to advance to senior executive positions due to an uneven playing field, which makes this an important question to ask companies. A natural follow-up question is what the gender distribution is on entry level. If the numbers between the gender distribution on entry level and in executive positions highly differ it could give you an indication that women face higher barriers to senior leadership within the organization.\nInteresting statistic! A study in the United Kingdom showed that improving gender diversity on senior-executive teams led to better performance - for a 10 percent increase in gender diversity the EBIT rose by 3.5 percent (Mckinsey 2015).”}, {”question”: ”Can you provide role models/mentors for me in your organisation?”, ”description”: ”Role models and/or mentors are essential in order to explore what possibilities one has within the company, get inspired and learn the company’s values and culture. When you start working at a new workplace it is therefore valuable to have a mentor that inspires you, and also that gives you guidelines when it comes to equality.\nThis is a question that employers could avoid by just answering yes/no. Don’t take a simple yes as an answer, ask them to further develop what type of mentorship programs they have, how they work, by whom they have provided and how well-implemented they are within the company.”}, {”question”: ”What do you do in order to create gender balance in tech-intensive positions?”, ”description”: ”In today’s world, which has a large focus on technology, men hold a significant percentage of the tech-intensive positions (McKinsey 2015). Due to the fast development of technology and increase in digitalization, there is a large demand for jobs within these areas. As a result of this fast increase there is a large potential to work towards gender equality within technology, but only as long as women are encouraged to apply for these types of jobs.\nA good answer to this question gives you concrete examples of what programs and initiatives the firm takes to promotes gender balance in tech-intensive positions by encouraging women to apply for them. Follow-up questions can include asking for statistics regarding their gender balance in these positions as well as in the overall organization.”},  {”question”: ”Can you guarantee that I will work in a diverse environment?”, ”description”: ”A diverse environment is characterized by a number of perspectives and viewpoints as well as a richness in expertise and experience (BCG 2017). These are key components not only in a company’s success, but also in one’s individual development. Well-being is often correlated to if an individual feels challenged at their workplace and if they are given the opportunity to grow and thrive - and this can be more easily achieved in diverse surroundings (Hbr.org 2016).\nThis may be a tricky question for a company to answer on the spot, so what is a good answer? Statistics and initiatives that a company takes can give you a good indication of how diverse their working environment is. So a good answer includes numbers on how equal their leadership positions are between men and women as well as examples on training and mentorship programs that promote e.g. individual development, diversity or equality that they offer. Diversity should be baked into every aspect of the company and should therefore be reflected by its employees!”}, {”question”:  ”What quantitative/measureable results have you achieved from your equality work?”, ”description”: ”This question is vital as it gives you a clear indication of how well-developed a company’s equality measures are. It is important to see which of a company’s diversity efforts that a company takes actually result in an environment that is more diverse and inclusive that helps all individuals thrive, as well as to which extent these measures are effective. Often times equality programs are not as effective as the company believes it to be, which makes this question relevant. A BCG report showed that from a study where 91% of the respondents’ companies had made investments in gender diversity programs, only 27% of women said they were personally benefitted from them (BCG 2017). Despite this women are still underrepresented on most leadership teams, and gender diversity programs aren’t helping as much as they should be! That’s why you should ask for examples of clear, measurable results to see how effective a company’s gender work is. An example of a quantitative result is the number of women in senior positions that have reached these positions as a result of a gender equality program.”}, {”question”: ”Can you guarantee that everyone has the same opportunities in a recruitment process and how do you work with unconscious bias?”, ”description”: ”Recruitment processes are often affected by unconscious bias, and it represents a barrier to a women’s progression. It is hard to avoid the unconscious assumption-making that comprises stereotyping characteristics, abilities and roles of women and men. That’s why this is a very relevant, but also challenging question that marks the highest level of difficulty in our campaign. A good answer to this question could be an elaboration of a company’s unconscious-bias training in recruitment, an indication if the company sets targets for recruitment of women at every level or information regarding if they make recruitment partners aware of gender diversity policies.\nIf this question interests you we encourage you to look at this article (which is in Swedish) that discusses 11 steps a company can take to obtain an equal recruitment process!\nhttp://www.jamstall.nu/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Ta-trappan-elva-steg-till-jamstalld-rekrytering.pdf\nhttps://resources.workable.com/blog/combat-bias-in-hiring”}]
